Autosar is a demanding standard in the automotive industry, which has become a must know knowledge nowadays.

Autosar architecture is complicated and not an easy topic to understand at the beginning, but if

explained in a better way, it's quite easy.

And about me, I'm Prakash, with eight years of experience in automotive domain, working on Autosar

for two out of the nine Autosar core organisations.

I'll take you through this course and explain the architecture in a better, understandable way with

live examples wherever possible.

This course aims for freshers, who are new to the topic and for people who already have some basic knowledge

on Autosar.

This will make it very clear on what that architecture is all about and where and how to apply them.

In this course, we'll see all these topics in a very detailed manner.

We'll start with the theoretical session where we get introduced to the Autosar topic and see the advantages of

having Autosar.

Will next see the Autosar layers one by one in detail, and we will start with the BSW layer first.

And then the application layer with a complete look into this configuration like component types, ports

runnables, events, connectors and many more.

We'll also take a deeper look into the sender receiver and the client server interface, which will

be using mostly in our software.

We'll also be seeing how to design and choose the right components, ports and interfaces with a live

example use case.

In the next section, we look at the RTE layer and we'll see in detail on how RTE takes care of the port communications

and scheduling.

After this, we'll see the Autosar methodology in very detailed manner and we'll also take a live example to

understand this.

This will be a two hours of the theoretical part where we understand all the concepts with short examples.

The next is the demo section for the rest 2.5 hours where we will take a new use case from an automotive

application and design the complete Autosar software starting from the base MCAL layer to the application

layer.

And I'm not going to use any general Autosar editors for our demo for two main reasons.

One is that they are overpriced for everyone to try if you are not working in an automotive industry

and the second.

If although we have these tools, the configurations will be auto generated by it and what is generated is

completely a black box for us.

To overcome this, we'll be seeing the demo directly on the tags itself based on simple XML editors

and Notepad++, which is easily available for all of us to learn and try.

Finally, once we finished, the course will be very clear on what all the architecture is and the different

layers of what he said, but the good examples to interrelate with and write an Autosar software with

simple editors.

And thanks for choosing this course and wish you a good learning.