Autosar is an Automotive Open System Architecture, which was developed in 2003.

It's a layered architecture, mainly developed by a partnership from automotive OEMs, suppliers and

other companies in the software, semiconductor and electronic industries.

Before continuing with this course, it's important to understand what an ECU is.

It would be a new term for people who are new to the automotive industry.

If you take a vehicle, which we will be further calling it as a system, it contains many electronics that

control a small parts of the vehicle.

Example, the engine control unit controls the vehicle injection, ignition extra.

Likewise, there are many control units available in the vehicle, which will be calling it as ECUs

.

Now coming back to the topic.

It's an open standard that's defined and accessible to everyone from the organization website.

To proceed with this course, it's recommended to navigate to the official website and download the

required specifications for further cross-reference.

We are now at the organization website and this is their homepage.

We'll navigate to the standards and classic platform.

This is the latest Autosar standards that is released.

The past releases can also be accessed from the links here from below.

For our training's we look into the Autosar 4.4.0 standards.

We just navigate in to the 4.4.0

And we are now in the classic platform of 4.4.0

And here we could see the specifications categorizsed on layer wise.

Its recommended that we download all the standard zips from here, and that could be useful for reference

as the course continues.

Will quickly see how the standard will look like.

I'm going to download one of the standards for MCAL.

Inside, we have two sets of documents where one is the SRS document.

And the other is the SWS document.

SRS is the requirement specification of that particular layer, and SWS is the specification

document of the particular layer.

To understand the layer specifications will refer to the SWS document and for further particular

requirement clarity will refer to the SRS document.

We'll see what is inside once we come to these topics later.

The Autosar organisation is a group of companies together like we see here.

These nine companies together are the core partners of the Autosar organisation.

They are a combination of OEMs and suppliers together.

They have the organizational control and they form the top management of the organization.

They are the deciding authority for Autosar standards, clearance releases, etc.

They'll also be part of the leadership working group and will provide technical contributions or updates

to the standards.

The next are the premium members.

These premium members are the leading OEMs or suppliers who will make use of the Autosar standards and contribute

to its development as well.

They'll be part of the leadership working groups and can make technical contributions to the standards.

They also have access to the working documents as well.

The next are the development members, they are formed by small organisations or startups, would

also like to be part of Autosar.

They have access to the final standards, and at times they can also make useful contributions as well.

Like the premium members, they will not have access to the working documents.

Finally, the attendees are followers, they are mostly non-profit organisations or individuals who would

like to follow the standards, they'll be limited to only making use of the standard documents.