We just saw who the members of the Autosar organization are and would defines such standards for the automotive

industry. So why do we need such huge standards to be defined for the automotive industry?

To understand this, let us get back to the late 1980s, this was the period where electronics started

to pitch into our vehicle. We had small control units controlling a critical vehicle systems like

the injection, combustion, etc..

Later as years progressed, the amount of control units in the vehicle started to expand.

Example, we had ABS that was controlled by an ECU, the gearbox being controlled by another control

unit and so on.

It didn't stop here by 2005, we had a lot of advanced electronic controlled options introduced.

Critical safety systems like airbag demanded precisely controlled electronics, fuel saving features like start

stop functionality, sophisticated features like auto parking or the software update and many more.

Now, by 2021, the electronics have grown to a greater extent, like connected vehicles, advanced

driving assist system for self-driving cars, and it's still expanding.

Considering such advancements in the automotive industry, with all electronics taking major control,

there is a demand that also electronic control units work together in a standardized way.

So what problem do we have with an non Autosar software?

This is an example of how a normal or not Autosar software would look like.

The application software for the end functionality is written for a specific hardware or a microcontroller.

This makes a tight bonding between the hardware and software together.

So having this in mind, let's put a few questions.

If the customer wants to change the hardware or the controller for some reason, will it be easy?

He has to spend a huge cost once again to redevelop the application software to fit the new hardware.

Customers will have a tough time in such a case.

And let's consider it from the suppliers point, a supplier has written an application software and

he wants to sell it to different customers.

How easy it is ?

Since the end customer can run this application on any ECU, it's not easy that a supplier writes

a suitable application code that fits every hardware.

So it's not easy from the supplier's point as well.

Autosar standards come in to solve such huge issues. In general Autosar provides an easy handling

for complex automotive software.

Flexibility of the software development is increased through abstraction. Autosar standards clearly

separate the hardware and software, making it easy for the application developer?

Softwares developed can be reused across different vehicles or shared across customers without much effort

.

Autosar provides a way that development can be distributed among suppliers leading way to parallel development

and getting fast to the market.

Easy plug and play of software are offered by Autosar. Customers can make the best available software

in the market from different suppliers.

As a result, the best innovative solution stays in the market.

How this all happens or is possible is what you're going to see as the course progresses.

To make this understanding easy, by the end of the course, we shall review back the same advantages once again.

once again.